Representation of sexuality. Cam and Mitchell are a gay couple who adopt a baby in series 1 and get married in series 5, offering a positive, progressive representation. This contrasts with Friends which often made jokes about homosexuality.
Representation of ethnicity: Modern Family is diverse in its representation of ethnicity but does reinforce some stereotypes associated with race and ethnicity. Gloria is Colombian and often represented as a Latina stereotype with a fiery temper. Jay often can’t understand her accent, and this is used as material for jokes. Minor characters, such as Jay’s black American friend Miles, add to the programme’s diverse range of characters, although the way he is used as a token black friend to prove Jay isn’t racist is more problematic. Lily is Vietnamese and her adoption by gay couple Cam and Mitchell is central to the narrative in series 1.  Jay assumes his new black neighbours will think he’s a ‘racist old man’ who is getting security cameras installed because of them, reinforcing stereotypes of race, highlighting the misrepresentation of black people as criminals. Jay refers to the way people label him an ‘old, straight, white bigot’ when suggesting that Cam and Mitchell are also showing prejudice towards Lily’s transgender friend Tom. At one point, he complains to Gloria, ‘You’ll never understand the stereotypes old white men face’, creating comedy for an audience who recognise Jay’s own prejudices.
Personal identity: The programme may appeal to the audience because they relate to a character or a particular situation. The diverse range of characters and situations in Modern Family makes for a highly relatable sitcom.
Social interaction: This pleasure has been enhanced by developments in technology. Audiences watch episodes of Modern Family and at the same time interact with friends and family on social media using "#ModernFamily". ‘And the Modern Family wedding made me cry, in the best way possible! Congrats Cam and Mitchell!! So perfect’ (Twitter).